2/1/26 

reading what I have in the notes gives different views: first: 
goal: we want to be able to label new data without having seen it, usi9ng clustering--> thus find papers about that. 
then 
given the filtered data, what are the performances of the model? 
- look at how the models perform with the filtered data
- look at the data distribution, how is it distributed? are we filtering out something with a pattern? 
- we could decide based on the distribution to filter out specific parts, and see --> this means that instead of filtering by distrubution away from median, we filter on size. 
- 

General question: how do we label data that does not have a label with clustering? can we do it? what have other people done? 
additional question: if the initial idea was to apply what Lowe etfriends did, aren't we happy with that? should we maybe divide the two problems so one is Ariel and the other is another? 

it could be important to figure that out so we use the parts from ariel for ursula, but ariel is its own thing? 

I think that it might me important, considering that clustering is already a difficult task, and we are trying to do manythings at once. 

steps from now: 
read papers --> find out what other people have done
filter out things in a different way, so that we can find patterns in that

metric learning? 

another thing to do: select percentages of data around the center pf the cluster, and get an overview of the performance based on those selected data: how weòll does the cluster cluster, if we take the 50% closest data to the centre? 


so I have made a brainstorming doc for the different papers, and now I will test out the clustering and then taking percentages of data to see how and if performance improves. 

to do that, I will take the best performing clustering combo, of the not filtered data for now, and then of the filtered data afterwards, and then 
I will select the data at intervals, to see a) cluster purity and b) clustering performance. 
so the output needs to be an overview of the kind of data that is still in the cluster compared to not, or maybe, look at the type of data at each percentage of distance from the central point. yes lets start with taht. 


I made the decile overview. and most of the clusters are rather pure, while one if very not pure. also, it is a different analysis from the cluster label distribution (duh) 
but the thing is that, most of the clusters only have class 1 2 3 and the other classes are almost all in one cluster. this is really annoying because it does not give great results. 
however, this is on the whole dataset. so I am going to try it on the best results from the filtered data. 
the best performing was dino rgb ac not normalised euclidean. however, the data is mostly clustered in one cluster, and the rest is very few points per cluster. not great. 
fuuuuck 

so a possibility is that this is what it is, it is fun to have tested different methods but we cannot make this into a labelling strategy. 
the class imbalance makes it so that it can find starfishes, but cannot find baby clusters of pure other classes, so we could have a reliable starfish detector. and then make smaller clusters of the other ones. (hierarchical style)

so having the decile overview is pretty interesting, but I am not sure what to do with it. 
most important thing: figure out what the goal of all of this is, becuase currently things arent going great great. 